@node sorted-bag, hash-bag, Implementations, Implementations
@section sorted-bag

@node sorted-bag Overview, sorted-bag API Reference, sorted-bag, sorted-bag
@subsection Overview

@code{sorted-bag} is an implementation of bag. It is based on a
balanced-binary tree and keeps the elements of the bag sorted. 

@node sorted-bag API Reference, sorted-bag Examples, sorted-bag Overview, sorted-bag
@subsection API Reference

@menu
* Protocols Implemented: Protocols Implemented by sorted-bag. :
* sorted-bag?::
* make-sorted-bag::
* sorted-bag: sorted-bag constructor. :
* sorted-bag-copy::
* sorted-bag-copy::
* sorted-bag-empty?::
* sorted-bag-insert!::
* sorted-bag-delete!::
* sorted-bag-contains?::
* sorted-bag-count::
* sorted-bag-count-set!::
* sorted-bag-length::
@end menu

@node Protocols Implemented by sorted-bag, sorted-bag?, , sorted-bag API Reference
@comment node-name, next,          previous, up
@code{sorted-bag} implements the @code{bag}, @code{collection}, @code{extendable},
@code{mutable}, and @code{enumerable}
protocols. @xref{bag}. @xref{collection}. @xref{extendable}. @xref{mutable}. @xref{enumerable}.

@node sorted-bag?, make-sorted-bag, Protocols Implemented by sorted-bag, sorted-bag API Reference
@comment node-name, next,          previous, up
@deffn {procedure} sorted-bag? object
@b{returns} a boolean indicating whether or not 
@code{object} is a sorted-bag.
@end deffn

@node make-sorted-bag, sorted-bag, sorted-bag?, sorted-bag API Reference
@comment node-name, next,          previous, up
@deffn {procedure} make-sorted-bag :comparator
@b{requires} @code{:comparator} be an object implementing the
@code{comparator} protocol. @code{comparator} must be ordered.@*@*
@b{returns} an instance of @code{sorted-bag}
@end deffn

@node sorted-bag constructor, sorted-bag-copy , make-sorted-bag, sorted-bag API Reference
@comment node-name, next,          previous, up
@deffn {procedure} sorted-bag :comparator . items
@b{requires} @code{:comparator} be an object implementing the
@code{comparator} protocol and @code{items} be a list of objects for which
@code{comparator} is applicable. @code{comparator} must be ordered.@*@*
@b{returns} an instance of @code{sorted-bag}@*@*
@b{modifies} the returned @code{sorted-bag} so that it contains @code{items}
@end deffn

@node sorted-bag-copy, sorted-bag-empty?, sorted-bag constructor, sorted-bag API Reference
@comment node-name, next,          previous, up
@deffn {procedure} sorted-bag-copy bag
@b{requires} @code{bag} be a sorted-bag @* @*
@b{returns} a shallow copy of @code{bag}.
@end deffn

@node sorted-bag-empty?, sorted-bag-delete!, sorted-bag-copy, sorted-bag API Reference
@comment node-name, next,          previous, up
@deffn {procedure} sorted-bag-empty? bag
@b{requires} @code{bag} be a sorted-bag @* @*
@b{returns} a boolean indicaing whether or not @code{bag} contains any items.
@end deffn

@node sorted-bag-insert!, sorted-bag-delete!, sorted-bag-empty?, sorted-bag API Reference
@comment node-name, next,          previous, up
@deffn {procedure} sorted-bag-insert! bag item
@b{requires} @code{bag} be a sorted-bag, and @code{item} be
an arbitrary object supported by the comparator used to create @code{bag}. @* @*
@b{modifies} @code{bag} so that it contains a copy or an addtional
copy, if one already exists, of @code{item}. @* @*
@b{returns} @code{unspecified}
@end deffn

@node sorted-bag-delete!, sorted-bag-contains?, sorted-bag-insert!, sorted-bag API Reference
@comment node-name, next,          previous, up
@deffn {procedure} sorted-bag-delete! bag item
@b{requires} @code{bag} be a sorted-bag, and @code{item} be
an arbitrary object supported by the comparator used to create @code{bag}.  @* @*
@b{modifies} @code{bag} so that it contains one less copy of
@code{item}. If 0 copies of @code{item} exist it is removed from @code{bag}. @* @* 
@b{returns} @code{unspecified}
@end deffn

@node sorted-bag-contains?, sorted-bag-count, sorted-bag-delete!, sorted-bag API Reference
@comment node-name, next,          previous, up
@deffn {procedure} sorted-bag-contains? bag item
@b{requires} @code{bag} be a sorted-bag, and @code{item} be
an arbitrary object supported by the comparator used to create @code{bag}  @* @*
@b{returns} a boolean indicating whether or not the @code{bag}
contains @code{item}.
@end deffn

@node sorted-bag-count, sorted-bag-count-set!, sorted-bag-contains?, sorted-bag API Reference
@comment node-name, next,          previous, up
@deffn {procedure} sorted-bag-count bag item
@b{requires} @code{bag} be a sorted-bag, and @code{item} be
an arbitrary object supported by the comparator used to create @code{bag}  @* @*
@b{returns} the number of @code{item}s found in @code{bag}.
@end deffn

@node sorted-bag-count-set!, sorted-bag-length, sorted-bag-count, sorted-bag API Reference
@comment node-name, next,          previous, up
@deffn {procedure} sorted-bag-count-set! bag item count
@b{requires} @code{bag} be a sorted-bag, @code{item} be
@code{item} be
an arbitrary object supported by the comparator used to create @code{bag}, and @code{count} be an integer
representing the number of @code{item}s to include in @code{bag}
@* @*
@b{modifies} @code{bag} to contain @code{count} number of @code{items}
unless @code{count} is less than or equal to 0 which results in the
all @code{item}s begin removed from @code{bag}. @* @*
@b{returns} @code{#unspecified}
@end deffn

@node sorted-bag-length, , sorted-bag-count-set!, sorted-bag API Reference
@comment node-name, next,          previous, up
@deffn {procedure} bag-length bag
@b{requires} @code{bag} be a sorted-bag
@* @*
@b{returns} the number of items contained in @code{bag}
@end deffn

@node sorted-bag Examples,sorted-bag API Reference, ,sorted-bag
@subsection Examples

2 procedures are provided for creating a @code{sorted-bag}. The first
creates an empty bag and the other populates the bag with the items
passed to it:

@smalllisp
(enumerable-collect (make-sorted-bag :comparator +number-comparator+)
   +list-collector+)
  @result{} ()

(enumerable-collect (sorted-bag :comparator +number-comparator+ 1 1 1 3)
   +list-collector+)

  @result{} (1 1 1 3)
@end smalllisp


Assuming a sorted-bag has been created as above, to insert an item into a sorted-bag use:

@smalllisp
(sorted-bag-insert! bag 1)
   @result{} #unspecified
@end smalllisp

The count of an item can be obtained with:

@smalllisp
(sorted-bag-count bag 1)
   @result{} 1

(sorted-bag-count bag 2)
   @result{} 0
@end smalllisp

And the count can be explicitly set using:

@smalllisp
(sorted-bag-count-set! bag 1 4)
   @result{} #unspecified

(sorted-bag-count bag 1)
   @result{} 4
@end smalllisp

Or a single copy deleted with:

@smalllisp
(sorted-bag-delete! bag 1)
   @result{} #unspecified

(sorted-bag-count bag 1)
   @result{} 3
@end smalllisp

To check to see if a sorted-bag is empty:

@smalllisp
(sorted-bag-empty? bag)
   @result{} #f
@end smalllisp


To check whether an item is a member of a sorted-bag:

@smalllisp

(sorted-bag-contains? bag 1)
   @result{} #t

(sorted-bag-contains? bag 3)
   @result{} #f
@end smalllisp


And finally, to make a copy:

@smalllisp
(let ((bag2 (sorted-bag-copy? bag)))
   (eq? bag bag2))
   @result{} #f
@end smalllisp

@code{sorted-bag} also implements the @code{bag}, @code{collection},
@code{mutable}, and @code{enumerable}
protocols. @xref{bag Examples}. @xref{collection
Examples}. @xref{extendable Examples} @xref{mutable Examples}. @xref{enumerable Examples}.
